test
test we got big news in the financial
system the Federal Reserve looks like
they are going to cut interest rates
beginning the next easing cycle in
today's video I'm going to explain
what's happening with the FED we're
going to look at the yield curve
inversion that has reversed and what
that means for stocks what that means
for your retirement accounts and so much
more you came here for the truth so let
me unveil that for you in today's video
we are going to look at all these things
I'm going to break it down really really
easy okay so stick with me in this
article right here we're talking about
the so-called jumbo fed Cuts now there's
some that have started to expect maybe
the Federal Reserve is not going to cut
by
0.25% oh no maybe they'll do a 50 basis
points 75 basis points that's what
they're expecting now this is all based
on interest rate swaps you'll hear about
Futures these things are usually very
good at being able to uh find the
direction of interest rates being able
to see where they're cutting now what
happens here is that the bond market is
moving based on the direction that they
anticipate things to go the bond market
tells a very big story and you've heard
of the yield curve inversion now this is
an example of the yield curve inversion
and now it has uninverted there's
different ways that people refer to it
the steepening of the yield curve what
is that okay so when we um you know the
simplest way to explain it as I always
do is that if you're going to buy a bond
then it's going to be a super long one
let's say 30 years well you would think
that a 30-year Bond will give you a
better return than let's say one year
right you're taking much more risk you
go out to hold it for 30 years so you
expect a better return however what
happens is during these periods of time
they flip the other way and you actually
get a better return on the shorter dated
debt and so that happens it's a yield
curve inversion it's a sign a signal of
a big problem and what you'll notice
here in this chart where the red shaded
areas are those are
recessions and so when the yield curve
does invert it barely did by the way
during this period leading into 2020 um
and it was would have been much worse
had they not had to shut everything down
and then print a whole bunch of money
but anyway looking at this every time we
see the same pattern when the yield
curve inverts and then starts coming up
the other direction that's when a
recession hits so this is very key to
watch what is the dis inversion telling
us a restoration of the normal upward
slope of the yield curve or dis
inversion typically happens when the FED
starts to lower interest rates or
markets start pricing in looming Cuts I
have heard from people in the industry
that manage other people's money that
you don't have to look at what the
Federal Reserve is doing they don't
affect that but what do they look at oh
let's look at the if we want mortgage
rates yeah let's look at the the 10year
because the 10e is correlated highly the
FED funds rate or the central banks no
no no don't look at them but they are
the center they are the nucleus of all
of it yes markets can play there and of
course the Federal Reserve is just doing
one of those many different types of
rates that you'll see out there a
Commercial Bank is the one that actually
sets the mortgage rate that you get but
obviously it depends on what the central
Bankers are doing that affects their
rates I can't believe that people that
manage money don't even realize this or
at least they won't acknowledge it since
the Central Bank tends to ease policy
when the economy hits a snag some say
that dis inversions often signal that a
recession is imminent that's right and
that's what we could be facing now this
is if you stretch it out long going back
1954 up until today and you see might be
a little bit difficult to see on the
screen but you're seeing over and over
and over again uh almost perfectly it
depends on which you're using this is a
2-year and a 10year okay you can do the
there's two year there's 30 years I mean
there's 3 months 10 year there's all
these different like ratios everyone
thinks there is the best one uh all you
need to know is that when this process
occurs it usually ends up the vast
majority of cases ends up in a recession
what happens in a recession is that we
get difficult times layoffs and so on
but we also get the um you know interest
rates coming down and potentially a lot
of money printing sector and Factor
performance when the yield curve both
steepens so I told you at the beginning
and here we are how does this affect
stocks you could see it for yourself
where are you invested right now do you
have a retirement account what's
happening this is important for you
Healthcare usually does well all right
you could see that at the bottom of the
list real estate utilities communication
Services
materials
so just trying to show you what could
happen based on what we have seen before
that's all okay so I'm going to move on
if you want to take a screenshot of that
or all links are in the description uh
at the bottom where this says sources
S&P performance around 15 historical
yield curve
uninversity we're going into the process
in the first place this this has I was
explaining to the finance Friday group
it's not because a line goes below
another line that that means that it's
going to you know the end result here is
oh okay we're we're in a recession line
below line no no that that's just a
signal that's just one little piece of
the puzzle but what it does is it gives
us an indication what is going on right
now we got a problem
Equity struggle after an inversion if
the economy enters a recession so
there's all these factors and you'll
hear and you'll see all the YouTube
titles and all that nonsense you got to
know the details it's like if this then
that right it's programming language and
so you'll see that typically time and
time again why are we going into this in
the first place right now what they're
telling us what they're telling us is
that the economy is relatively sound we
got some weakness here we got some
weakness oh no but don't worry we're
going to fix it all up economy won't go
into a recession we're just trying to
ease the burden because we had high
inflation we're trying to cool that
down that if they're going to cut
interest rates right here supposedly the
no Landing
scenario this then would be one of those
times oh the yield curve inverts dis
inverts or un inverts whatever want to
use and then we don't enter a
recession I don't know are we already
already in a recession look let me tell
you what's happening for real like the
real deal inflation stings most if you
earn less than
$300,000 yes I said that right it will
hurt you if you're making $300,000 or
less all right more Americans than ever
expect their finances to worsen as
inflation hits a 40-year high do you
really need that extra car what if I
scroll down right over here what does it
say time for the bus ah you will own
nothing and be happy now I don't think
you need to have that second car or need
to drive a car or need to own a house or
any of these things we need food shelter
we need you know basic the like the
basic
elements okay but if somebody wants to
own a car a home
anything have a garden whatever it is
they should be able to it should be
relatively affordable now if somebody
wants to buy a super yacht well that
then shouldn't be available for
everybody you got to make a certain
amount of money because these
monstrosities require a lot of
effort but a home average home an
average salary there should be some
semblance of reality in there maybe not
your your favorite home maybe it's like
100 years old maybe it needs some
serious Renovations but you got out of
school you're making money you're having
an income you save up for a little bit
you buy a home today you can't even do
that unless you're getting hundreds of
thousands of dollars from your parents
basically you're coming out of school
you're not paying anything you're not
buying anything you can't afford it you
see that's why things are screwed up
today
and so the next thing is that we got to
look long term like where does this lead
us and I'm telling you right now there
are serious problems this comes directly
from ssa.gov
okay what do we
have
unfunded liabilities or what they call
unfunded
obligation through the infinite Horizon
beautiful way to say that but we're
talking talking about the unfunded
liabilities and they put it here you can
read it in the chart you can scroll down
there's more in there Link in the
description
63 trillion I have to say the trillion
because some people say it only said
$62 no my friends okay it's
trillions $63 trillion unfunded
liabilities
directly from the source itself okay I
only show sources of my information
which you generally do not get elsewhere
we are talking
about an attempt to um basically suggest
you know we can't afford this there's no
way we're going afford it never going to
happen but we're going to do something
different this time we're going to tax
that we're going to you know do they
have like all these nonsense ideas that
have never worked before and what occurs
time and time and time again the people
get screwed so you've got to take action
today because this long-term Horizon you
got $63 trillion on your back just in
this one thing there's a lot more
depending on what you
include inflation is up for everybody
they're saying look you got to make
$300,000 not for everybody depends on
what you're spending depending what
they're including on that in that but
just know what they are saying is like
the what when we're coming from the
academics when we're looking at the
politicians when we're talking about the
central
Bankers it doesn't matter they don't
have your best interest in mind you have
your best interest in mind or at least I
hope you do and if you're watching this
video at least up until this point I
know you do so you got to take action
today I talk about these all the time
two things that you can look at is
compass it's on my website it's free
compass is your Financial education you
can't get Elsewhere for this free it
doesn't give you a you know an email
address you don't got to give a dollar
you don't got to give any anything you
just go to the money gps.com
Compass you get that that's your base
now that starts to get the things in
motion where you're going to ask the
right questions Compass is something
that everybody needs to watch and guess
what it's only about 20 minutes worth of
content the money gps.com Compass if
you're one of those people who is an
action taker you want to actually get
into the depths of everything I have the
live sessions the live sessions which
we've been doing for about a year now
over a year is something that with
people want the mass like indepth stuff
this is where it goes if you're
unavailable for the lives you still get
the recordings I would hope that you
join for the lives but we have some
people with like time zone differences
they just can't make it and that's okay
uh they can watch the recordings and
they do watch the recordings but live is
definitely optimal so I would love to
see you as part of the groups whether
we're on the Friday session or the
Sunday session just hit that link at the
top of the description and you're going
to get more information I got a little
video and and a bunch of descriptions on
there for you and the sign up and all
that so check it out I want to see you
there take care